# Credit-scoring-Model.-R-

Various credit scoring models have been built based on a statistical analysis of past borrowers’ characteristics such as demographics and historical financial performance data. The data have been obtained from UCI Machine Learning Repository and contains 30000 observations and 24 raw variables. (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/default+of+credit+card+clients#) As it is often the case in credit scoring, the target variable is imbalanced. The data have been preprocessed before using in the analysis. Derived variables have engineered by transforming raw variables to obtain a set of more predictive features. The purpose of the models is optimizing credit decisions and make lending more cost-efficient. The present analysis implies cost– efficient as realizing the balance between two conflicting objectives of the lending practice, increasing the expected profit due to giving as many loans as requested and minimizing the expected loss due to lending to risk default customers. The credit scoring models have been developed using proven supervised classification models, binary Logistic regression, Random forest, Gradient boosting, Stacking model of both Random forest and XGBoost models, and Naive Bayes. The models have been evaluated based on their performances in cross-validation, on train and test data sets according to two discrimination measures Koglomorov-Smirnov test (KS) and AUC (The area under Reciver Operating Curve), F1 score and the sum of True positive and True negative values as a measure of accuracy of a model. The goal was to build the model which performs best in terms of detecting as many as possible credit defaulters while preserving the largest volume of customers. The models’ hyperparameters (where applicable) as well as thresholds are fine-tuned using F1 score to realize the trade-off objective. XGboost was found to be the best performing classifier, outperforming a number of other classifiers. 
The production model has been defined as the logistic regression model since it is easy to implement across different platforms and performance monitoring plan has been developed to outline how the model will be monitored, i.e. a set of performance metrics that should be tracked and the tolerances which define acceptable model performance. In the performance monitoring guide a detailed and exact description of this monitoring plan is provided and some additional heuristic model validations related to both model performance and model stability to be performed at each periodic model validation outlined.
The last step was  to perform the model performance validation that was outlined in the Performance Monitoring Guide. 
All the steps of the analysis are accompanied with well-documented guides. 
